6 more entries (blogs to docs) (#624)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/cyberattack/cyberattack.md

---
Title: 'Cyberattack'
Description: 'Cyberattacks are attempts to disrupt or disable computer systems or steal valuable data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
Tags:
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Encoding'
  - 'Validation'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'paths/securing-express-applications'
---

<link rel="canonical" href="https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/what-is-a-cyber-attack/" />

Cyberattacks are attempts to disrupt or disable computer systems or steal valuable data. They can compromise sensitive data, including:

> - Personal information like Social Security numbers, birthdates, or medical information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Personal information like social security numbers, birthdates, or medical information.
```

Author: I'm actually thinking of ditching the bit about Social Security b/c it might not make sense for readers outside the US who are reading these entries. Maybe I should switch with "government-issued documents"?

> - Financial information such as credit card numbers, bank account numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Financial information such as credit card numbers and bank account numbers.
```

This can lead to consequences like identity theft, which is time-consuming, frustrating, and expensive to resolve.

## Types of Cyberattacks

There are several types of cyber attacks. Some of the most common include:

> - Malwares that can either install and go unnoticed (spyware) or hijack entire systems (randomware).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Malware that can either install and go unnoticed (spyware) or hijack entire systems (ransomware).
```

- Phishing scams where an email, text, or link could trick a user into sharing sensitive, private information.
- A "man-in-the-middle" attack involving the attacker intercepting a connection between mutliple users.

> - Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks that overload a system's resources and bandwith.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks that overload a system's resources and bandwidth.
```

- SQL injections that corrupt and collect data from servers and databases.
- Zero-day vulnerabilities that exploit software vulnerabilities before they're patched.
- DNS tunneling that hides and removes the data of other programs in DNS queries and responses without being detected.

## Preventing Attacks

Organizations and individuals can and should take steps to prevent cyber attacks.

- Along with self-directed learning, organizations should educate employees on common cyber threats, including phishing and social engineering.
- Perimeter defenses, such as firewalls, should be installed and kept up to date.
- State-of-the-art antivirus software and malware detectors should be in place and continually updated to address threats.
- While patch management might seem tedious, it can help prevent vulnerabilities from being exploited.

> - User-access, such as strong passwords and multi-factor authentication, should play a huge role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- User-access, such as strong passwords and multi-factor authentication, should be utilized.
```
